I am Leonardo da Vinci, born in
1452 near the Tuscan town of Vinci,
Italy. I was one of the great creative minds
of the Italian Renaissance, hugely influential
as an artist and sculptor but also immensely
talented as an engineer, scientist and inventor.
I was apprenticed to painter Andrea del
Verrocchio in Florence and in 1478 became
an independent master. In about 1483, I moved to
Milan to work for the ruling Sforza family as a
sculptor and an architect. I produced a mural
of 'The Last Supper' in the refectory of the
Monastery of Santa Maria delle Grazie, Milan.
I was in Milan until the city was invaded
by the French in 1499 and the Sforza family
forced to flee. I returned to Florence where
I painted several portraits, but the only
one that survives is the famous Mona Lisa.
The fame of my surviving paintings has meant that
I have been regarded primarily as an artist, but
the thousands of surviving pages of my notebooks
reveal the most eclectic and brilliant of minds.
I wrote and drew on subjects including geology,
flight, gravity, optics and anatomy which I
studied to paint the human form more accurately.
I 'invented' the bicycle, airplane, helicopter,
and parachute some 500 years ahead of their time.
In 1517, at the invitation of the French king
Francis I, I moved to the Château of Cloux, near
Amboise in France, where I died on 2 May 1519.
If all this work had been published in an
intelligible form, my place as a pioneering
scientist would have been beyond dispute. Yet my
true genius was not as a scientist or an artist,
but as a combination of the two: an
'artist-engineer'. My painting was scientific,
based on a deep understanding of the workings of
the human body and the physics of light and shade.
My science was expressed through art, and
my drawings and diagrams show what I meant,
and I hope this influenced the
world to be a better place.